Statement: This section, located in Part 11 of the bill, defines a series of terms crucial for the bill's provisions regarding harm to minors from social media.
Context: It provides legal definitions for terms such as "Adverse mental health outcome," "Algorithmically curated social media service," and "Engagement driven design elements" to specify the scope of the legislation. This section is foundational for the rest of Part 11.

Section 2. Section 78B-3-1101 is enacted to read:
Part 11. Harm to Minors by Algorithmically Curated Social Media Service 78B-3-1101. Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1) "Account holder" means a person who has, creates, or opens an account or profile to use an algorithmically curated social media service.
(2) (a) "Adverse mental health outcome" means a condition affecting a minor's mental health that is:
(i) diagnosable by a licensed mental health care provider; and
(ii) acknowledged by professional mental health experts as having a negative impact on a minor's well-being.
(b) "Adverse mental health outcome" includes depression, anxiety, suicidal thoughts or behaviors, and self-harm thoughts or behaviors.
(3) "Algorithmically curated social media service" means a social media service that drives user engagement primarily through the use of:
(a) a curation algorithm; and
(b) engagement driven design elements.
(4) "Content" means any information, visual depiction, or other material that appears on or is available or enabled through a social media service.
(5) (a) "Curation algorithm" means a computational process or set of rules used by a social media platform that determines, influences, or personalizes, designed to encourage prolonged or frequent engagement:
(i) the content a user views;
(ii) the order in which content is displayed;
(iii) how prominently content is displayed; or
(iv) the manner in which content is displayed.
(b) "Curation algorithm" does not include the curation of:
(i) responses to specific user queries or user prompts requesting content related to defined topics or interests selected by the user; or
(ii) content to ensure only age appropriate material is provided to a user based on the user's age;
(iii) content that prevents a minor from viewing violent, bullying, threatening, or harassing content; or
(iv) content to comply with any state or federal law restricting the display of material harmful to minors.
(6) "Engagement driven design elements" means:
(a) autoplay features that continuously play content without requiring user interaction;
(b) scroll or pagination that loads additional content as long as the user continues scrolling; or
(c) push notifications.
(7) "Excessive use" means the use of a social media service by a minor to an extent that the use substantially interferes with the minor's normal functioning in:
(a) academic performance;
(b) sleep;
(c) in-person relationships;
(d) mental health; or
(e) physical health.
(8) "Minor" means an individual who is under 18 years old that:
(a) has not been emancipated as that term is defined in Section 80-7-102; or
(b) has not been married.
(9) "Parent" includes a legal guardian.
(10) "Push notification" means an automatic electronic message displayed on an account holder's device, when the user interface for the social media service is not actively open or visible on the device, that prompts the account holder to repeatedly check and engage with the social media service.
(11) "Resident" means the same as that term is defined in Section 53-3-102.
(12) "Social media company" means an entity that owns or operates a social media service.
(13) (a) "Social media service" means a public website or application that:
(i) content that is primarily generated by account holders and not by the social media company;
(ii) permits an individual to register as an account holder and create a profile that is made visible to the general public or a set of other users defined by the account holder;
(iii) connects account holders to allow users to interact socially with each other within the website or application;
(iv) makes available to each account holder a list or lists of other account holders with whom the account holder shares a connection within the system; and
(v) allows account holders to post content viewable by other users.
(b) "Social media service" does not include:
(i) email;
(ii) cloud storage; or
(iii) document viewing, sharing, or collaboration services.
(14) "User" means an individual who accesses or uses an algorithmically curated social media service.
(15) (a) "Utah account holder" means a person who is a Utah resident and an account holder.
(b) "Utah account holder" includes a Utah minor account holder.
(16) "Utah minor account holder" means a Utah account holder who is a minor.