Statement: This section, titled "Utah Minor Protection in Social Media Act," establishes a series of definitions for the terms used throughout the bill.
Context: This is a foundational section that provides the legal definitions for key terms, including what constitutes a social media service, who is an account holder or minor, and what is considered an "age assurance system" and a "verifiable parental consent mechanism."

Section 1. Section 13-71-101 is enacted to read:
CHAPTER 71. UTAH MINOR PROTECTION IN SOCIAL MEDIA ACT
Part 1. General Provisions 13-71-101. Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(1) "Account holder" means an individual who has, creates, or opens an account or profile to use a social media service.
(2) "Age assurance system" means a system that is reasonably calculated to verify an account holder's age with a high degree of certainty, using commercially reasonable efforts, with due regard for accuracy and the privacy of the individual.
(3) "Algorithmically curated social media service" means a social media service that drives user engagement primarily through the use of:
(a) a curation algorithm; and
(b) engagement driven design elements.
(4) "Curation algorithm" means a computational process or set of rules used by a social media platform that determines, influences, or personalizes, designed to encourage prolonged or frequent engagement:
(a) the content a user views;
(b) the order in which content is displayed;
(c) how prominently content is displayed; or
(d) the manner in which content is displayed.
(5) "Engagement driven design elements" means:
(a) autoplay features that continuously play content without requiring user interaction;
(b) scroll or pagination that loads additional content as long as the user continues scrolling; or
(c) push notifications.
(6) "Minor" means an individual who is younger than 18 years old.
(7) "Minor account holder" means an account holder who is a minor.
(8) "Parent" includes a legal guardian.
(9) "Private account" means an account that is not visible to the general public.
(10) "Social media company" means an entity that owns or operates a social media service.
(11) (a) "Social media service" means a public website or application that:
(i) primarily displays user-generated content;
(ii) permits an individual to register as an account holder;
(iii) allows an individual to create a profile that is visible to other account holders or to the general public; and
(iv) allows an account holder to post content viewable by other users.
(b) "Social media service" does not include:
(i) email;
(ii) cloud storage; or
(iii) document viewing, sharing, or collaboration services.
(12) "Utah account holder" means a person who is a Utah resident and an account holder.
(13) "Utah minor account holder" means a Utah account holder who is a minor.
(14) "Verifiable parental consent mechanism" means a system that is reasonably calculated to provide a parent with the ability to consent to a minor's use of a social media service.