27002. (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), it shall be unlawful for the operator of an addictive internet-based service or application, between the hours of 12 a.m. and 6 a.m., in the user’s local time zone, and between the hours of 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., from Monday through Friday from September through May in the user’s local time zone, to send notifications to a user if the operator has actual knowledge that the user is a minor unless the operator has obtained verifiable parental consent to send those notifications.
(2) Commencing January 1, 2027, it shall be unlawful for the operator of an addictive internet-based service or application, between the hours of 12 a.m. and 6 a.m., in the user’s local time zone, and between the hours of 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., from Monday through Friday from September through May in the user’s local time zone, to send notifications to a user whom the operator has not reasonably determined is not a minor, including pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Attorney General, unless the operator has obtained verifiable parental consent to send those notifications.
(b) The operator of an addictive internet-based service or application shall provide a mechanism through which the verified parent of a user who is a minor may do any of the following:
(1) Prevent their child from accessing or receiving notifications from the addictive internet-based service or application between specific hours chosen by the parent. This setting shall be set by the operator as on by default, in a manner in which the child’s access is limited between the hours of 12 a.m. and 6 a.m., in the user’s local time zone.
(2) Limit their child’s access to any addictive feed from the addictive internet-based service or application to a length of time per day specified by the verified parent. This setting shall be set by the operator as on by default, in a manner in which the child’s access is limited to one hour per day unless modified by the verified parent.
(3) Limit their child’s ability to view the number of likes or other forms of feedback to pieces of media within an addictive feed. This setting shall be set by the operator as on by default.
(4) Require that the default feed provided to the child when entering the internet-based service or application be one in which pieces of media are not recommended, selected, or prioritized for display based on information provided by the user, or otherwise associated with the user or the user’s device, other than the user’s age or status as a minor.
(5) Set their child’s account to private mode, in a manner in which only users to whom the child is connected on the addictive internet-based service or application may view or respond to content posted by the child. This setting shall be set by the operator as on by default.
