SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
(a) Social media provides an important tool for communication and information sharing. Approximately 95 percent of 13- to 17-year-olds, inclusive, say that they use at least one social media platform, and more than one-third report using social media almost constantly.
(b) However, some social media platforms have evolved to include addictive features, including the algorithmic delivery of content and other design features, that pose a significant risk of harm to the mental health and well-being of children and adolescents.
(c) As the United States Surgeon General has reported, recent evidence has identified “reasons for concern” about social media usage by children and adolescents. This evidence includes a study concluding that the risk of poor mental health outcomes doubles for children and adolescents who use social media at least three hours a day and research finding that social media usage is linked to a variety of negative health outcomes, including low self-esteem and disordered eating, for adolescent girls.
(d) Heavier usage of social media also leads to less healthy sleep patterns and sleep quality, which can in turn exacerbate both physical and mental health problems.
(e) Further, social media usage is more strongly associated with negative mental health outcomes, including depressive symptoms and self-harm behaviors, than is consumption of other forms of media such as television or electronic games.
(f) Both California and the country as a whole are facing an ongoing youth mental health crisis, with rates of adolescent suicides, depressive episodes, and feelings of sadness and hopelessness on the rise in recent years.
(g) For these reasons, it is essential that California act to ensure that social media platforms obtain parental consent before exposing children and adolescents to harmful and addictive social media features.

SECTION. 2. Chapter 24 (commencing with Section 27000) is added to Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:
CHAPTER  24. Protecting Our Kids from Social Media Addiction Act
27000. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the Protecting Our Kids from Social Media Addiction Act.
27000.5. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) “Addictive feed” means an internet website, online service, online application, or mobile application, or a portion thereof, in which multiple pieces of media generated or shared by users are, either concurrently or sequentially, recommended, selected, or prioritized for display to a user based, in whole or in part, on information provided by the user, or otherwise associated with the user or the user’s device, unless any of the following conditions are met, alone or in combination with one another:
(1) The information is not persistently associated with the user or user’s device, and does not concern the user’s previous interactions with media generated or shared by others.
(2) The information consists of search terms that are not persistently associated with the user or user’s device.
(3) The information consists of user-selected privacy or accessibility settings, technical information concerning the user’s device, or device communications or signals concerning whether the user is a minor.
(4) The user expressly and unambiguously requested the specific media or media by the author, creator, or poster of the media, or the blocking, prioritization, or deprioritization of such media, provided that the media is not recommended, selected, or prioritized for display based, in whole or in part, on other information associated with the user or the user’s device, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter and, in the case of audio or video content, is not automatically played.
(5) The media consists of direct, private communications between users.
(6) The media recommended, selected, or prioritized for display is exclusively the next media in a preexisting sequence from the same author, creator, poster, or source and, in the case of audio or video content, is not automatically played.
(7) The recommendation, selection, or prioritization of the media is necessary to comply with this chapter or any regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
(b) (1) “Addictive internet-based service or application” means an internet website, online service, online application, or mobile application, including, but not limited to, a “social media platform” as defined in Section 22675 of the Business and Professions Code, that offers users or provides users with an addictive feed as a significant part of the service provided by that internet website, online service, online application, or mobile application.
(2) “Addictive internet-based service or application” does not apply to either of the following:
(A) An internet website, online service, online application, or mobile application for which interactions between users are limited to commercial transactions or to consumer reviews of products, sellers, services, events, or places, or any combination thereof.
(B) An internet website, online service, online application, or mobile application that operates a feed for the primary purpose of cloud storage.
(c) “Media” means text, audio, an image, or a video.
(d) “Minor” means an individual under 18 years of age who is located in the State of California.
(e) “Operator” means a person who operates or provides an internet website, an online service, an online application, or a mobile application.
(f) “Parent” means a parent or guardian, including as defined in regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
(g) “User” means a person who uses an internet website, online service, online application, or mobile application. “User” does not include the operator or a person acting as an agent of the operator.
27003. (a) This chapter shall not be construed as requiring the operator of an addictive internet-based service or application to give a parent any additional or special access to, or control over, the data or accounts of their child.
(b) This chapter shall not be construed as preventing any action taken in good faith to restrict access to, or availability of, media.
27006. (a) This chapter may only be enforced in a civil action brought in the name of the people of the State of California by the Attorney General.
(b) The Attorney General shall adopt regulations to further the purposes of this chapter, including regulations regarding age assurance and parental consent by January 1, 2027. The Attorney General may adopt regulations that provide for exceptions to this chapter, but only if those exceptions further the purpose of protecting minors.
(c) In promulgating the regulations described in subdivision (b), the Attorney General shall solicit public comment regarding the impact that any regulation might have based on the nondiscrimination characteristics set forth in Section 51 of the Civil Code or in any other applicable law.
27007. If any provision of this chapter, or application thereof, to any person or circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable.